feat(k8s): kube cluster creation update (#3478)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-kosmos-cluster.mdx

---

meta:
  title: How to create a Kubernetes Kosmos cluster
  description: Learn how to create a Kubernetes Kosmos cluster with managed Scaleway Instances and external nodes from any cloud provider.
content:
  h1: How to create a Kubernetes Kosmos cluster
  paragraph: Learn how to create a Kubernetes Kosmos cluster with managed Scaleway Instances and external nodes from any cloud provider.
tags: kubernetes, kosmos, kosmos-cluster, cluster
dates:

>   validation: 2024-08-08

Author: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-09-30
```

2. Click **Create cluster** to launch the cluster creation wizard.
3. On the cluster configuration page, provide the following details:
    * Check the Organization and Project for the new cluster.
        <Message type="important">
          You can not move a cluster from one Organization or Project to another once created.
        </Message>
    * Select **Kubernetes Kapsule** as the cluster type, which uses exclusively Scaleway Instances.
      <Message type="note">
        This guide covers the creation of a **Kubernetes Kapsule** cluster. For Kubernetes Kosmos clusters, refer to the [Kubernetes Kosmos documentation](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-kosmos-cluster/).
      </Message>
    * Choose the geographical **region** for the cluster.
    * Select the control plane offer for your cluster. Options include shared or dedicated control planes.
        <Message type="tip">
          Need help deciding on a control plane offer? Learn more about our [Kubernetes control plane offers](/containers/kubernetes/reference-content/kubernetes-control-plane-offers/).
        </Message>
    * Specify the Kubernetes **version** for your cluster.

> 4. Provide a **name** for the cluster, along with an optional description and tags for better organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Provide a **name** for the cluster. Optionally, you can add a description and tags for better organization.
```

   Click **Select Private Network** to:
    * Attach an existing Private Network (VPC) within the same Availability Zone from the drop-down menu.
    * Attach a new Private Network to the cluster.
    <Message type="important">
      The Private Network cannot be detached, and the cluster cannot be moved to another Private Network post-creation.
    </Message>
6. Click **Configure pools** to proceed.

## Pool configuration

This section outlines the settings for your cluster pools.

1. Choose the pool type. Available types are **Scaleway** or **multi-cloud**.
2. Specify the following for each pool:
  * For **Scaleway** pools:
    * The **Availability Zone** for the pool's nodes.
    * The **node type** for the pool.
    * Configure **pool options**, including node count and whether to enable autoscaling. Options also include enabling autoheal and linking to a placement group, or you can retain default settings.
        <Message type="tip">
          Unsure about the autoheal feature? [Learn more about autoheal.](/containers/kubernetes/concepts/#autoheal)
        </Message>

>     * Enable full isolation if required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Enable full isolation, if required.
```

        <Message type="tip">
          Need more information on full isolation? [Learn more about full isolation.](/containers/kubernetes/reference-content/secure-cluster-with-private-network/#what-is-the-difference-between-controlled-isolation-and-full-isolation)
        </Message>
  * For **multi-cloud** pools:

>     * TBD.

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be here? (just checking)

2. Click **Add pool** to integrate the pool into the cluster.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. To add additional pools, click **Expand** and repeat the above steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To add more pools, click **Expand** and repeat the steps above.
```
